---
title: api.video Android video uploader
meta: 
  description: The official api.video Android video uploader for api.video. [api.video](https://api.video/) is the video infrastructure for product builders. Lightning fast video APIs for integrating, scaling, and managing on-demand & low latency live streaming features in your app.
---
<!--
THIS FILE IS AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED. DO NOT EDIT!
 IF YOU NEED TO CHANGE THIS FILE,  CREATE A PR IN THE SOURCE REPOSITORY.
-->

# api.video Android video uploader

[api.video](https://api.video/) is the video infrastructure for product builders. Lightning fast video APIs for integrating, scaling, and managing on-demand & low latency live streaming features in your app.

## Project description

api.video's Android  streamlines the coding process. Chunking files is handled for you, as is pagination and refreshing your tokens.

## Getting started

### Requirements

Building the API client library requires:
1. Java 1.8+
2. Maven/Gradle

### Installation

#### Maven users

Add this dependency to your project's POM:

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>video.api</groupId>
  <artifactId>android-video-uploader</artifactId>
  <version>1.3.2</version>
  <scope>compile</scope>
</dependency>
```

#### Gradle users

Add this dependency to your project's build file:

```groovy
implementation "video.api:android-video-uploader:1.3.2"
```

#### Others

At first generate the JAR by executing:

```shell
mvn clean package
```

Then manually install the following JARs:

* `target/android-video-uploader-1.3.2.jar`
* `target/lib/*.jar`

### Code sample

Please follow the [installation](#installation) instruction and execute the following Kotlin code:

```kotlin
// If you want to upload a video with an upload token (uploadWithUploadToken):
VideosApiStore.initialize()
// if you rather like to use the sandbox environment:
// VideosApiStore.initialize(environment = Environment.SANDBOX)

val myVideoFile = File("my-video.mp4")

val workManager = WorkManager.getInstance(context) // WorkManager comes from package "androidx.work:work-runtime"
workManager.uploadWithUploadToken("MY_UPLOAD_TOKEN", myVideoFile) // Dispatch the upload with the WorkManager
```

#### Example

Examples that demonstrate how to use the API is provided in folder `examples/`.

### Upload methods

To upload a video, you have 3 differents methods:
* `WorkManager`: preferred method: Upload with Android WorkManager API. It supports progress notifications, upload in background, queue, reupload after lost connections. Directly use, WorkManager extensions. See [example](examples/workmanager) for more details.
* `UploadService`: Upload with an Android Service. It supports progress notifications, upload in background, queue. You have to extend the `UploadService` and register it in your `AndroidManifest.xml`. See [example](examples/service) for more details.
* Direct call with `ApiClient`: Do not call API from the main thread, otherwise you will get an `android.os.NetworkOnMainThreadException`. Dispatch API calls with Thread, Executors or Kotlin coroutine to avoid this.

### Permissions

You have to add the following permissions in your `AndroidManifest.xml`:

```xml
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET" />
<!-- Application requires android.permission.READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE to upload videos` -->
    <uses-permission android:name="android.permission.READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE" />
``` 

Your application also has to dynamically request the `android.permission.READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE` permission to upload videos.

## Documentation

### API Endpoints

All URIs are relative to *https://ws.api.video*


#### VideosApi


##### Retrieve an instance of VideosApi:
```kotlin
val videosApi = VideosApi("YOUR_API_KEY", Environment.PRODUCTION)
```



##### Endpoints

Method | HTTP request | Description
------------- | ------------- | -------------
[**upload**](docs/VideosApi.md#upload) | **POST** /videos/{videoId}/source | Upload a video
[**uploadWithUploadToken**](docs/VideosApi.md#uploadWithUploadToken) | **POST** /upload | Upload with an delegated upload token



### Documentation for Models

 - [AccessToken](docs/AccessToken.md)
 - [AdditionalBadRequestErrors](docs/AdditionalBadRequestErrors.md)
 - [AuthenticatePayload](docs/AuthenticatePayload.md)
 - [BadRequest](docs/BadRequest.md)
 - [Metadata](docs/Metadata.md)
 - [NotFound](docs/NotFound.md)
 - [RefreshTokenPayload](docs/RefreshTokenPayload.md)
 - [Video](docs/Video.md)
 - [VideoAssets](docs/VideoAssets.md)
 - [VideoSource](docs/VideoSource.md)
 - [VideoSourceLiveStream](docs/VideoSourceLiveStream.md)
 - [VideoSourceLiveStreamLink](docs/VideoSourceLiveStreamLink.md)


### Documentation for Authorization

#### API key

Most endpoints required to be authenticated using the API key mechanism described in our [documentation](https://docs.api.video/reference#authentication).

On Android, you must NOT store your API key in your application code to prevent your API key from being exposed in your source code.
Only the [Public endpoints](#public-endpoints) can be called without authentication.
In the case, you want to call an endpoint that requires authentication, you will have to use a backend server. See [Security best practices](https://docs.api.video/sdks/security) for more details.


#### Public endpoints

Some endpoints don't require authentication. These one can be called with a client instantiated without API key:
```kotlin
val videosApi = VideosApi()
```

### Recommendation

It's recommended to create an instance of `ApiClient` per thread in a multithreaded environment to avoid any potential issues.
For direct call with `ApiClient`: Do not call API from the main thread, otherwise you will get a `android.os.NetworkOnMainThreadException`. Dispatch API calls with Thread, Executors or Kotlin coroutine to avoid this. Alternatively, APIs come with an asynchronous counterpart (`createAsync` for `create`) except for the upload endpoint.

### Have you gotten use from this API client?

Please take a moment to leave a star on the client ⭐

This helps other users to find the clients and also helps us understand which clients are most popular. Thank you!

## Contribution

Since this API client is generated from an OpenAPI description, we cannot accept pull requests made directly to the repository. If you want to contribute, you can open a pull request on the repository of our [client generator](https://github.com/apivideo/api-client-generator). Otherwise, you can also simply open an issue detailing your need on this repository.